How to Verify Default Gateway Reachability and Once Again Understand it as a Default Gateway

Default Gateway

A default gateway is a router or network device through which traffic from a local network is sent to external networks (for example, such as the internet). In most scenarios, when the device wants to communicate with outside systems, it is the very first hop in the whole network.

  ip route | grep default

Reachability of a Default Gateway
  
To ascertain whether the default gateway is alive, you can use the **ping** command:

  ping -c 4 <default-gateway-IP>

If replies come back, it means that the gateway is reachable. If it fails, it's likely a network problem.

These are the general steps to diagnose issues related to the default gateway.  
1. Check Network Connection:** Ensure that your device is connected to the correct network.  
2. Restart the Router:** Sometimes, it just needs restarting.  
3. Check the Routing Table (Linux/macOS):
   	netstat -rn

Important for Checking Network Interfaces Using iwconfig/ifconfig
 
The `ifconfig` command provides much more information regarding the network interfaces.  

	ifconfig



Crucial Parameters Dealing with Outputs of ifconfig 
	inet: The allocated IP address  
	netmask: The subnet mask  
	broadcast: The broadcast address  
	RX packets: Hugely received packets  
	TX packets: Totally sent packets  
	MTU: Maximisation Transmission Unit (default: 1500 bytes)  
	TX errors/RX errors: Packet transmission errors  

Check Speed and Status of Network Interface  
To see the speed of interfaces: 
	iperf3 -y

To see MTU settings: 
	ip link show eth0

To change MTU size (performance tuning):  
	sudo ifconfig eth0 mtu 1400

Understand `iwconfig` (For Wireless Interfaces)

The command `iwconfig` is used for pretensioning controlling the wireless network interfaces.  

iwconfig

Important Parameters in the Outputs of iwconfig  
	ESSID: Name of the connected Wi-Fi network  
	Frequency: Operating frequency of the network  
	Access Point: MAC address of the Wi-Fi router  
	Bit Rate: Speed of the wireless connection  
	Tx-Power: Transmission power of the device  
	Signal level: Strength of Wi-Fi signal  
	Encryption key: Whether Wi-Fi is secured  


iwconfig wlan0 | grep -i signal
