Clarification of Events When Duplicate IPs are Set Up in a Network  

A scenario in which two devices in a network have been assigned the same IP address results in an IP address conflict. This leads to many issues of different kinds regarding communication within the network.

Causes of Duplicate IP Address Conflicts

1. Manual Static IP Assignment: A network administrator can assign the same IP to various devices manually.  

2. Misconfiguration of a DHCP Server: A DHCP server can assign an IP, which already is statically assigned for some other device.  

3. Clone of the MAC Address: Similar MAC addresses may get the exact IP due to devices with such addressing.

4. Network Problems While Reconnecting: During the reconnecting time after a long period, devices may get an already assigned IP.

Effects of Duplicate IP Addresses
  
1. Loss of network for communication: Devices having conflicting IP addresses do not communicate.  

2. Occasional Loss of Network Connectivity: Devices may show problems like slow responses or some set of packets getting lost.  

3. Routing and security issues: Their conflicting IPs may contribute to incorrect routing and vulnerability for security issues.  

4. System Log Errors: Conflicted networks report this in their logs, complicating the troubleshooting procedures.

How to solve duplicate IP conflicts
  
1. Use DHCP to automatically assign IP addresses, ensuring that stampedes do not have duplicate IP addresses.  
2. Check the list for IP assignments: Check for IP assignments on your router or DHCP server.  
3. Release and renew the IP address:  
   	sudo dhclient -v 
4. Manually assign a different IP: Transfer the static IP of one conflicting device to a new one.  
5. Checking of MAC Addresses: This will ensure that no two devices are using the cloned MAC addresses with the same IP.


Remote accessing a system using AnyDesk and Remote Desktop Connection**  

Considering that the user will have access to the one managing the other system through a network with these remote access tools.


1. AnyDesk  
Lightweight remote access software with low latency performance.  
 Setting: Install AnyDesk on both systems and use remote device's ID for the user.  
 Use case: Top recommendation for personal remote access and IT support.  


2. Remote Desktop Connection (RDP) 
RDP is a Microsoft proprietary protocol providing remote access to Windows PCs.  
 Setting: The user must enable Remote Desktop on the remote system and employ Remote Desktop Connection (mstsc) on the client.  
 Use Case: Good for enterprise Windows-based remote access.  


