Logging into Your Home Router and Checking Connected Devices

Step 1: Accessing the Router's Web Interface
1. Open any web browser  
2. Type your router's IP address into the address bar:  
   http://192.168.1.1 or http://192.168.0.1
3. Login using the admin credentials

Step 2: Checking Connected Devices  
1. Look for "Device List", "Connected Devices" or "LAN Status" .  
2. View the list of all devices connected to your Wi-Fi or Ethernet network.  
3. This list generally shows:  
   	IP Address 
   	MAC Address   
   	Device Name   

Step 3: Disconnect Unauthorized Devices
1. If you see any unknown device connected, you can block it using:  
   	MAC Address Filtering: Add the MAC address of the device to the blocklist.  
   	Change Wi-Fi Password: Change the password to prevent unauthorized access.



How a DHCP Server Assigns IP Addresses in a Network

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is used for automatically assigning IP addresses to network devices.

DHCP Process of IP Address Assignment  
1. DHCP Discovery: A request for an IP address is broadcast by the device connecting to a network.  
2. DHCP Offer: A DHCP server makes an offer with one of the addresses in its pool.  
3. DHCP Request: Device requests a lease for an address that would be assigned to it.  
4. DHCP Acknowledgment (ACK): The server acknowledges and assigns the IP address for a limited period.

	  dhclient -v 
 
Static vs Dynamic IPs  
	Dynamic IP: Temporary assignment that changes when the lease expires.  
	Static IP: Manually assigned to a device for stability (e.g., servers, printers).



Connecting to a Remote Machine via SSH and Telnet

SSH - Secure Shell  
SSH provides secure and encrypted remote connections.

Installing SSH  
	sudo apt install openssh-client -y  

Connecting to a Remote Server  
	ssh username@remote-ip  

Exit SSH Session  
	exit

Telnet - Insecure Remote Access

Telnet is an old remote-access protocol that does not utilize encryption.

Install Telnet  
	sudo apt install telnet -y  

Connect to a Remote Server  	
	telnet remote-ip  

Differences Between SSH and Telnet
	Security:
  		SSH: Encrypted  
   		Telnet: Unencrypted  
	Application:  
  		SSH: Secure remote login  
  		Telnet: Used for legacy systems  
	Default Port: 
  		SSH: 22  
  		Telnet: 23